Last.fm has totally stagnated. I always thought they really never dug into what made them cool: the stats. I want to see more: what decade my music is from, what I'm most likely to listen to at 3pm, geographic visualization etc. Some people made plugins that made pretty visualizations, but they were hard to find.

Music visualizations over time, how have my music tastes changed?

I also like the ability to "love" tracks. Sometimes when listening to a lot of music, or new stuff, I have trouble remembering which tracks really stood out. Sometimes I think, "What was that one with the bitchin' guitar riff? Was it track 4? 5? 6?" and it is just really to click the heart and it is saved for me.
	- Ability to love tracks with a note.

As far as the social aspect, I'm not really interested at all. I guess it would be kind of cool to see what my friends are listening to, and vice versa, but my friends that are into music and I often discuss that kind of stuff face-to-face anyway so I'm not sure I want something that actually substitutes or even detracts from real human interaction (that's the last thing I need, I'm already too much of a hermit). Most people seem to think I'm a bit crazy for caring that much about the data of my listening habits.
	- This is a good point, don't want to detract from real human interaction. Want to encourage conversation.
	- Post type: Ask for thoughts on music.

Yup, just want that glorious, beautiful, searchable, filterable data. ... that I was curious about their most-played and least-played tracks.
	- Artist data: most played, least played tracks, albums, etc.

It's a shame that last.fm hasn't really capitalized on the data aspect of the service and tried to make it more social.

It's totally disappointing. I'm still hoping they get things straightened out and continue to add and implement old and new features to this new Last.fm. Some other features that I'm still waiting for are small ones like being able to choose which band photo you use for your own music library, comparing one's library to another's with stats and recommendations, and a distinguished and refined version of "new releases" that actually shows the band I listen to and their albums being released rather than the release of another band with the same name that I don't care anything about.

"...just give me my god damn friends and their music back! Let me see what people who actually interest me are listening to so I can decide whether I'd like to listen to like-minded music I might actually like! Let me join a community on the site that gathers people just like me and my friends. What logical purpose is keeping these friends and community features out of beta up to this point?

Groups section and the community pages

I liked being able to sort through my recommendations by tag in the url bar as well as seeing my most frequent tags/genre be selectable at the top of the page proper. I

Being able to see which friends listen to a particular band when you visit that band's page

I think they need to rework their social features. The discussion forums/groups always felt clunky and old. Their releases tab is always lacking, and the API never went too far beyond vanity profile tools. I think they would have a shot being a "social network for hardcore music fans", getting integration (somehow) with RYM, Discogs, Bandcamp, Reddit... I'm not sure where/how it would fit, but they still have one advantage — they're the only ones (afaik) collecting and storing databases of people's listening habits. That's such a strong point that it might have halted their development. Ok, this is really neat, but what do we do next? Being tied to a major company didn't help them to work as quickly and free as needed, I'd imagine. On top of that, they'd have to get the revamp right — otherwise they'll just alienate their userbase and dig their own grave. They probably will have only one shot at that.


Music information:
what decade my music is from, what I'm most likely to listen to at 3pm, geographic visualization

Yup, just want that glorious, beautiful, searchable, filterable data.


Idea: Missing tracks
Tracks by artists that people love that you haven't heard (haven't heard can be vague, like listened to < N times).

Feature: Remove scrobles


For one thing, I really enjoy being able to look at the top artists for the last few weeks to see whether or not there was a specific style/genre that I had subconciously listened to during that time. I enjoy having all that data.


 I remember when the end-of-year top artist/song lists were filled with long descriptions and analysis, before it just became raw data and now I don't think they even do it anymore?

 Last.fm also has some potentially useful social features - like events. It is also a great way to keep track of artists you've seen live (and where) etc. Really amazing for the hardcore music fans.
  - Tricky.


  This obviously varies from person to person. I was highly active on the last.fm forums back in the day (in like, 2007-2009ish), and interacted a lot with other users, many of whom I knew from other online forums. But these days, I have no idea what the community is like - I hardly ever actually look at my page, except to see my recent charts.